---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "hightouch_model Resource - aballiet-terraform-provider-hightouch"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Model Resource
---

# hightouch_model (Resource)

Model Resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "hightouch_model" "my_model" {
    custom = {
        query = "{ \"see\": \"documentation\" }"
    }
            dbt = {
        compiled_sql = "...my_compiled_sql..."
        database = "...my_database..."
        dbt_unique_id = "...my_dbt_unique_id..."
        model_id = "...my_model_id..."
        name = "Ben Mueller"
        raw_sql = "...my_raw_sql..."
        schema = "...my_schema..."
    }
            is_schema = false
            name = "Raquel Bednar"
            primary_key = "...my_primary_key..."
            query_type = "...my_query_type..."
            raw = {
        sql = "...my_sql..."
    }
            slug = "...my_slug..."
            source_id = "...my_source_id..."
            table = {
        name = "Minnie Schiller"
    }
            visual = {
        filter = "{ \"see\": \"documentation\" }"
        parent_id = "...my_parent_id..."
        primary_label = "...my_primary_label..."
        secondary_label = "...my_secondary_label..."
    }
        }
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `is_schema` (Boolean) If is_schema is true, the model is just used to build other models.
Either as part of visual querying, or as the root of a visual query.
- `name` (String) The name of the model
- `primary_key` (String) The primary key will be null if the query doesn't get directly synced (e.g. a relationship table for visual querying)
- `query_type` (String) The type of the query. Available options: custom, raw_sql, tabel, dbt and visual.
- `slug` (String) The slug of the model
- `source_id` (String) The id of the source that model is connected to

### Optional

- `custom` (Attributes) Custom query for sources that doesn't support sql. For example, Airtable. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--custom))
- `dbt` (Attributes) Query that is based on a dbt model (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dbt))
- `raw` (Attributes) Standard raw SQL query (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--raw))
- `table` (Attributes) Table-based query that fetches on a table instead of SQL (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--table))
- `visual` (Attributes) Visual query, used by audience (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--visual))

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The timestamp when model was created
- `details` (Map of String)
- `id` (String) The id of the model
- `message` (String) must be one of ["Validation failed"]
- `syncs` (List of String) The list of id of syncs that uses this model
- `tags` (Map of String) The tags of the model
- `updated_at` (String) The timestamp when model was lastly updated
- `workspace_id` (String) The id of the workspace where the model belongs to

<a id="nestedatt--custom"></a>
### Nested Schema for `custom`

Required:

- `query` (String) Parsed as JSON.


<a id="nestedatt--dbt"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dbt`

Required:

- `model_id` (String) Model id that refer to a dbt model

Read-Only:

- `compiled_sql` (String) Compiled SQL in the dbt model
- `database` (String) Name of the database containing the generated table
- `dbt_unique_id` (String) Unique ID of the model assigned by dbt (usually some combination of the schema and table name)
- `name` (String) Name of the table generated by the dbt model
- `raw_sql` (String) Raw SQL in the dbt model
- `schema` (String) Name of the schema containing the generated table


<a id="nestedatt--raw"></a>
### Nested Schema for `raw`

Required:

- `sql` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--table"></a>
### Nested Schema for `table`

Required:

- `name` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--visual"></a>
### Nested Schema for `visual`

Required:

- `filter` (String) Parsed as JSON.
- `parent_id` (String) Parent id of the schema that visual query is based on
- `primary_label` (String)
- `secondary_label` (String)


